Add runbook for adding and removing storage nodes (#102)
appuio/openshift4-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/exoscale/add_storage_node.adoc

* `commodore`, see https://syn.tools/commodore/running-commodore.html[Running Commodore]
* `jq`
* `yq` https://mikefarah.gitbook.io/yq[yq YAML processor] (version 4 or higher)

== Prepare local environment

. Create local directory to work in
+
[TIP]
====
We strongly recommend creating an empty directory, unless you already have a work directory for the cluster you're about to work on.
This guide will run Commodore in the directory created in this step.
====
+
[source,bash]
----
export WORK_DIR=/path/to/work/dir
mkdir -p "${WORK_DIR}"
pushd "${WORK_DIR}"
----

. Configure API access
+
include::partial$exoscale/environment-vars.adoc[]
+
include::partial$vshn-input.adoc[]

. Get required tokens from Vault
+
include::partial$connect-to-vault.adoc[]
+
include::partial$get-hieradata-token-from-vault.adoc[]
+
[source,bash]
----
export TF_VAR_lb_exoscale_api_user=$(vault kv get \
  -format=json "clusters/kv/${TENANT_ID}/${CLUSTER_ID}/floaty" | jq '.data.data')
export TF_VAR_lb_exoscale_api_key=$(echo "${TF_VAR_lb_exoscale_api_user}" | jq -r '.iam_key')
export TF_VAR_lb_exoscale_api_secret=$(echo "${TF_VAR_lb_exoscale_api_user}" | jq -r '.iam_secret')

> ----

Reviewer: This is probably also required in `replace_storage_node.adoc`, not sure how I missed that.

----

== Set alert silence

:duration: +60 minutes
include::partial$create-alertmanager-silence.adoc[]

== Update Cluster Config

. Update cluster config. 
+
[source,bash]
----
pushd "inventory/classes/${TENANT_ID}/"

yq eval -i ".parameters.openshift4_terraform.terraform_variables.storage_count = 
  (.parameters.openshift4_terraform.terraform_variables.storage_count // 3) + 1" \
  ${CLUSTER_ID}.yml

yq eval -i ".parameters.rook_ceph.ceph_cluster.node_count = 
  (.parameters.rook_ceph.ceph_cluster.node_count // 3) + 1" \
  ${CLUSTER_ID}.yml

----

. Review and commit
+
[source,bash]
----

# Have a look at the file ${CLUSTER_ID}.yml.

git commit -a -m "Add storage node to cluster ${CLUSTER_ID}"
git push

popd
----

. Compile and push cluster catalog 
+
[source,bash]
----
commodore catalog compile ${CLUSTER_ID} --push -i
----

== Prepare Terraform environment

include::partial$exoscale/configure-terraform-secrets.adoc[]

include::partial$setup_terraform.adoc[]

== Add node

. Run Terraform to spin up a new node
+
[source,bash]
----
terraform apply
----

. Approve node cert for new storage node
+
include::partial$install/approve-node-csrs.adoc[]

> . Label and taint the new storage node
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> # Find the new storage node
> kubectl --as=cluster-admin get nodes
> 
> # Label the new storage node
> kubectl --as=cluster-admin label node <storage-XXX>\
>   node-role.kubernetes.io/storage=""
> 
> kubectl --as=cluster-admin taint node -lnode-role.kubernetes.io/storage \
>   storagenode=True:NoSchedule
> ----

Reviewer: Why not just use the following as the current snippet isn't even copy-pasteable?

```suggestion
. Label and taint the new storage node
+
include partial$exoscale/label-taint-storage-nodes.adoc[]
```

Author: I suspected that using the approach from the partial could break, as we first label all worker nodes as storage nodes and then remove the storage label from the other ones.

That means for a short time all nodes will be labeled as storage nodes. If the rook operator ran at exactly that time, couldn't it schedule the new OSD on a wrong node?

Reviewer: Maybe for other clouds where we can use CSI-provisioned PVCs, but on Exoscale, no new OSD will be scheduled unless there's an available localstorage PV and the localstorage PV constrains the pod to a storage node anyway.
